Hello and welcome back.
So in the last lesson we learned about what it is that Gatsby does at a high level.
Now in this lesson let's actually take a look at what we're going to build.
So what you end up building is just this basic blog Web site.
In this lesson there's not that much styling to it because what I'm trying to show you is just the basic
concepts in Gatsby in order to get you up and running.
Now how you end up actually styling your blog or adding features to your blog is entirely up to you
and definitely part of the coding challenge.
Now the blog itself is very simple.
It simply has a list of all of our blog posts that you can navigate to and navigate back from.
But the main thing to keep in mind here is that a lot of this content is actually dynamically generated
inside of Gatsby.
I'll show you what I mean.
It's actually really interesting because Gatsby style of setting up this blog is different from how
you would typically write it in a react application because of a lot of the plugins and API is inside
of Gatsby in how it generates this static Web site.
Now we're also going to learn how to host our blog on net Lafite so net lo fi is a company that offers
this amazing back in service for you to host static web sites and the free tier of Delphi is extremely
generous.
It's way more than what we need for our blog.
And it's incredibly easy.
It actually gives us continuous deployment pretty much right out the gate with GitHub.
And what that means is that we're able to push our code to get hub connected to Natalya Fi and whenever
we push code to that github repo Natalya Fi will automatically redeploy and rebuild our website and
update argue you are L with our latest code.
So that's a really really great service that we can leverage while using Gatsby because we're building
static web sites.
So now that we know what we're building and where we're going to host it to let's actually take a look
at how to write this code.
So let's go to our terminal and what we're going to leverage is the Gatsby see a so CLIA is a command
line interface which is a tool that we can use to quickly set up and build Gatsby projects pretty much
just like create reactor in order to use it.
We're going to leverage end X which as you remember is a new feature that comes with a later version
of NPM that allows us to leverage packages without having to download them globally on our computer.
So using and X I'm going to say.
Gatsby new and then Gatsby blog.
So what this does is it will initialize and clone down using the Gatsby starter a new Gatsby project
for me.
Now there's actually a lot of other startup projects you're able to leverage and all you would do is
after seeing Gatsby blog or whatever name you want for your gas you project you say space and then you
link the new start that you want to actually leverage and Gatsby provides all these starters depending
on what kind of Web site you're looking to build.
In fact there's even a Gatsby blog starter that Dan Abramoff the creator of redux and a very very prominent
member of the reactor core team uses to create his new blog overreacted.
Now you can totally take a look at this afterwards but let's just get started first to understand all
of the nuances in using Gatsby.
So once we've actually created our new Gatsby blog repo let's see into it and let's just open up the
code and see what we have
now you'll see right away that our folder structure comes with these different files here inside of
the source folder.
We have something that we might be used to seeing with our ReACT projects which is a components folder.
We have an images folder that holds some images and we have these pages folder.
Now we're going to talk about the pages folder.
But first let's just take a look at these four files we have here.
The Gatsby browser dot J.S. the Gatsby config Duchess Gatsby no Dutch jazz and Gatsby SSR.
So you can actually get server side rendering with Gatsby if you follow some of the instructions with
the gas.
SS Are API Doc now we're not actually going to do that in this course but it's nice to know that you
can achieve it with Gatsby but so if you're curious to see how to implement it after this course you
can definitely take a look at these docs Gatsby note we're going to use in order to build out some of
the more server required things that we will definitely explore in this course.
So for now just understand that this is where we end up writing some of our node related code now the
Gatsby config is actually the main file that we're going to focus on inside of this lesson at the very
least that Gatsby config holds a lot of the configuration options that we need in order for Gatsby to
know what to do.
Now this site metadata is actually data that we can pull into our components using graph Q all inside
of our Gatsby project.
So if we wanted access to a title this description or the author in any way we are able to leverage
graph Q Well and pull this site metadata right out of this Gatsby config object these plugins are additional
little libraries in Gatsby that allow you to do different things with different files so we'll definitely
explore this later but you can see these as kind of additional helper libraries that transform the way
that we're able to use Gatsby and we'll take a better look at this in a later lesson.
For now just understand that this plugins array is where we would add any new plugins that we want for
our Gatsby project.
Now Gatsby does have a lot of configuration and a lot of plugins so you can definitely take some time
and read a lot of the documentation that's available for many of the plugins that come by default with
the starter.
There's also going to be a lot of Gatsby concepts that we're going to cover.
And honestly you kind of have to just follow through with this lesson in order to understand at the
end how all of these pieces come together because there are so many moving parts in order for us to
end up building our blog.
But Gatsby does try and make it as easy as possible.
So as we build out some of these features we're going to go back to a lot of these files to better understand
what they're for right now.
I just want to introduce you to the ace files so that we understand what we're doing.
Now one of the big things is actually to look at package that Jason and looking at the scripts we see
that it does provide us with quite a few.
Now the main one that we want is actually Gatsby develop because Gatsby develop is what we use in order
to serve up our website on local host.
So let's actually just test that first.
So what we'll do is just run NPM run develop and what this will do is it will build up our new Gatsby
application and it'll actually give us two routes.
The first one will be local host eight thousand that is going to host the actual Web site.
The second you are all there are gonna give us is local host a thousand slash underscore underscore
underscore graph Q Well and this is going to be a graph Q Our playground but we'll look at that in the
next lesson in this lesson.
Let's just navigate to local host a thousand in order to see what it is that we get so by default we
get this Gatsby default page and we see that there's some routing that set up for us so we load this
little astronaut and if we click Go to page it takes us to a different page at this route and we can
go back to our home page really simple really quick.
They've just set up something here for us to just build off of.
So now that we see this in the next lesson let's take a look at how the code actually translates to
what we see here.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.